Dual life, featuring daily life and three-act heists. Linear like Miami Nights 2, in a small city targeting seven treasures. The player character would start the prologue of (basically self-inserting myself here), as a thrill addict and fresh grad from university but down on luck finding jobs resorting to ‘crime does pay’, a choice made once in desperation and never looked back on. Kicking off there, the phantom thief makes a lively debut, stealing off a major artefact from a museum crawling with the best guards. No true story themes, just self-indulgence. Not mystery but escape room thematic, quick time theme, with the ability to interact with people and get as much information. Level type games, with a freer reign. Still visual novel type though.

Inspo: Miami Nights 2, Persona (game stats), Ace Attorney (investigation aspect changed to infiltration), Ten Trials of Babel and Paper Lily (graphics but also how they can be linear-like in story or maybe multiple-choicing a little in an indulgent game - tbd), throwing in Roommates (because it has some daily life game stating going on that was relevant to the choices made in the visual novel-esque decisions of uni life)

Daily Life - Heist Act segments. Split into Prologue to Chapter 6. Filled with game overs at heists that could constitute to bad endings, but resetting to the last save point. Heists act like levels, accessed from the phone that would be the major UI, and ability to access game stats (?). Visual novel-esque letting daily life segments have some visual novel themes, with phone giving notifications to what needs to be done. Thoughts can be heard when cutscenes are triggered with dialogue boxes for story progression. Free to make friends, lovers and enemies but still have a linear storyline except for heist moments where stat build up can determine the story route, with multiple bad endings depending on heist fails and a singular true ending. 

Tbd…
Stats: Hunger, Hygiene, Health, Self-Esteem, Charisma, Fitness, Criminality (ensuring you don’t do this for DAILY LIFE if you don’t want to get caught!!!), Knowledge, Humour, Bathroom, Sleep, Fitness, 

Chara Sprites: Player (daily life - dressed up with different coloured shirts, pants, hair styles. Able to choose skin tone. Heist life - Hat and mask needed, able to disguise as anyone which is important)
Police Officers and security guards (generic police suit and black suited with sunglasses with only two hairstyles to figure out male / female)
Detectives (two or three - different style and hair, to give the player some challenge or)
Different type citizens (Maybe like Miami Nights 2 to fill the Daily Life segment, dependent on backgrounds) - Restaurant and hospital workers. Women and men, of a variation…
Shadowy Figures - Possible allies in PTA, to spur on people down on their luck with chuuni syndrome to actual heist doings (more like those 2D sprites in visual novels that no one really cares about [?])

Important characters (?): Player Chara [Default Name: Alex, Phantom Thief Name: Thrill] - Customizable at the start to wear whatever clothes. Phantom thief outfit is more flashy. Male: Suit, top hat and masquerade mask. Woman: Dress with side cut bellow, heeled boots, floppy hat and masquerade mask. Characterization is dependent on the daily life - focusing on Charisma, Fitness, Criminality and Knowledge put to test at the Daily Life segments to unlock different routes first and foremost. How treasures are stolen and what people influencing your steals will be dependent on those stats, who you are involved with and what you will discover.

[Routes - you are still a phantom thief and want to steal for the money but you don’t deny your thrill addiction, the cat and mouse chase. Especially with the Broker routes, you are that curious about the PTA that had set on towards your path and even if it doesn’t change your profession in the slightest, it’s always handy getting an extra help from allies for an easier life. Chapters will be disregarded the moment a route is triggered, unlocking an extra story outside of daily life and heist segments until the very ending. Chapter 1 - 6 without unlocking any of the routes would be the normal ending.]

Inspector Mori - Chief on a phantom thief taskforce, with a good success rate although it’s the prison’s fault to not hold those pesky phantom thieves in their holding cells longer than a day. Suspecting there is a bigger organization to explain the common phantom thievery still tamped down within before public knows but can never get evidence otherwise. Will meet more officers that would be pivotal to the infiltration act in Heist segment but pivotal, found near police station and the first rival from the museum arc. Be careful with Criminal Acts, getting higher at certain points would lock into a route, increasing suspicion with Never Guilty (chapter 6), Will You Arrest Me (chapter 2 - 5 - still able to continue the game, but certain routes will be locked thanks to it) and Shattered Identity (chapter 2 -5) endings with the inspector. Inspector Route. Heavily involved with chapter 1 (the museum arc) and play a bit role in the bank arc.

Detectives Kat, Sam, Curie - Separate detectives that solve different types of crimes and made contact with the player. They appear in different heist locations, off solving different crimes. Depending on Charisma, Knowledge and Fitness, the Player could get more involved with the detectives, depending on fulfilling prerequisites from the Heist routes, uncovering mysteries around the city that pertain heavily to lore, with the fine line between phantom thief and detective slowly blurring. Always Rivals (chapter 3 - when all detectives will be met), Cat & Mouse (chapter 5) and Necessary Evil (post chapter 3, able to continue game but certain routes will be locked. May be able to get a further ending) might be the endings in this Detective Route. Heavily involved throughout Chapter 2 - 3 

Journalist Sunny and Bartender Shine - The info broker duo you don’t want to mess with. Can be friended separately, and related to Knowledge and Charisma. Known from the start, but not necessarily associated with the PTA. The Broker Route, deep diving city lore and uncovering the conspiracies esp post abandoned hospital heist. Can be played after ‘Will You Arrest Me’ since the Inspector can have a hand in helping this case or the Detective Route about ‘Necessary Evil’ that cannot be mixed guaranteeing the ending in ‘Always Innocent’ for Inspector Broker Route and ‘Never Evil’ for Detective Broker ending, although this can be standalone with specifically two other endings ‘Front Page News’ and ‘Just Under The Tab’ for the Broker endings.

Clinic Receptionist Cal - One of the people you have first met while on the job hunt, just before you got recruited into the PTA. A hidden route to the very end of chapter 6 that can only be unlocked throughout the chapters where you have successfully performed all the heists without flaw, and without unlocking special ‘fail’ CGs (ie getting caught by the officers during the very first chapter after stating the license when no one has that good a memory and meeting Inspector Mori in a special CG circumstances). You will meet receptionist by day Cal and Phantom Thief Sting by night, the very recruiter to the PTA and a rival in the making. Whole new route with one singular heist challenge that also consists 3 endings depending on how the rivalry will fare.

 

Backgrounds - Where do I want this all to take place? Following Miami Nights 2 and branching from there. Inside an undisclosed city. Heist targets, starting off with the good old museum (city centre). Other places connecting to heists will build up the city. A prestigious school (suburb), a rich man’s mansion (city centre-ish), an abandoned hospital (outskirts), the literal police station (city centre), the good old bank (between suburb and city centre). 
Book store / newsstand (info hub - meet a trio of journalists that can befriended [dependent on friendship levels to the amount of intel you might get?], also can increase knowledge and place to uncover information), jazz club / pub, cafes [also info hubs, meeting nosy bartenders and servers. Helps with hunger and charisma], 

Map-wise: Downtown (Police Station, Jazz bar, Stadium, Gym, market stands)
Suburb (Barber, Grocery Stores, Houses, School - in between downtown and suburb)
City Centre (A few shopping malls [having arcade, karaoke, bookstore etc], hospital, museum, bank, restaurants, hotel, market stands)
Outskirts (Nature, abandoned hospital, clinic, motel, underground market)

Chapter 1: Work on Outskirts, City Centre and Suburb.

Scene 1: Outskirts - Motel (Room) -> Outskirts -> Suburb (Grocery Stores) -> City Centre - Shopping mall, Restaurants -> Outskirts - Clinic, Underground Market -> City Centre (Museum)
  


Storyline - Purely indulgent, trying to outwit authorities and getting the treasure thus the game name called PhantomThrill. Seven to undetermined number treasures to an ending, maybe tying back to the beginning with a fresh grad unable to enter the work force and learn what it means that crime pays. For visual novel-esque, using daily life to figure out what treasures would be stolen. It starts off with the rumors about PTA, Phantom Thief Association, which many would assume stands for something way different, which is why it’s the perfect cover alias. Player would have an idea about what such an organization would do, tempting for those that can’t make it in the straight and narrow, that have found themselves needing other means for a side hustle. Or that being a phantom thief, that vigilantes could too have justice. But that is not the player’s story. Only doing it for the thrill.

Chapter 1: Museum (The Jade Whip). Introduced to the Inspector, learned about the PTA. Starting off with the first Daily-Heist segments. Mixture of VN and sandbox simulation (?) Heavily using Miami Nights as the inspo. Player gets out into the world, broke asf with some savings and on a job hunt. Into a city, getting rejected out of jobs and house because staying in a motel with plans to find a place. Down on luck, after searching for jobs and a place using this as the daily life sim tutorial to the game stats and mingling with people. The last place was a clinic, simply to get meds but stumbling upon the underground market where there was a chance to do a job of less legal means. Become a phantom thief? Why? But down on luck, and a museum heist to a lovely treasure catching the eye, a fantasy is indulged. Skill testing, with the option to back down in intel-gathering during the last part of the daily segment and meeting the Inspector for the first time, the player will either accept or reject (leading to an easter egg bad ending) which will segue to the heist act, with infiltration, calling card and escape. Infiltration is done as a civilian with the ability to learn about disguises, interacting with the few NPCs in the museum about the layout, and finding out the treasure. Interacting to get intel noted into the phone that can serve as useful nodes to planning the heist with extra for a potential backdoor if anything goes wrong in the calling card / escape segment. Calling card segment is always done in the night, showing off a fantastic trick into getting the treasure. Quick time actions for a beautiful heist well done before going to the escape segment that is either the bust out or sneak out. This particular prologue, I want the player disguised while getting away to stumble to an officer and then asked about details of the disguised person: using Kaitou KID ref when referencing the license number and getting caught immediately. Using a dropbox where people type the first few letters to immediately get a certain response XDD. Learning that Inspector Mori is not one to be underestimated but finally meeting his match.

Game set-ups
-Background CGs: Motel, Shopping mall, Restaurant, Clinic, Museum.
-Chara sprites: Player, receptionist, server, clinician, police /bodyguards, shadowy figures, Inspector Mori
[Working on backgrounds and sprites and hope for inspiration when it comes to interactables]

Chapter 2: Prestigious school (The trophy, when it is an ancient cup). Meet the high sch detective Kat, and the senior adult detective Sam. 

Chapter 3: Mansion. Meet private investigator / detective Curie (The faith, hope, love ring).

Chapter 4: Already met Journalist Sunny and Bartender Shine by chapter 2 but focused in the abandoned hospital arc (The accursed necklace).

Chapter 5: Bank (The golden flower)

Chapter 6: Final heist to an epilogue being the literal police station (Stealing away an animal XD) [or maybe]

Game Style - Life-building simulator with a heist job on the side, maybe visual novel as well. Make sure to check on health, hunger, hygiene. Intelligence, crime, strength, kindness, self-esteem etc. Fresh grad, finding an apartment, lamenting the job market. Wondering what to do next. Mobile UI gives fresh notifs on direction of game, leading to heist segments. In three act part, called infiltration, calling card and getaway, that the life-building sim stating is important but cannot be improved or decreased over the course of the action-packed heist as it’s (Insert Phantom Thief Name) instead of (Insert Real Identity). No love interests, just annoying rivals. Having friends, trying to hide away who you are. No real ending except that one’s just living and finding a thrill.

Starting small. Can split the daily life (sandbox?) and heist (at first I thought levels, but I want it to be connected to the daily life) into two parts of the game. Which could be easier to make. What could be the beta version. What kind of backgrounds, how many characters. Where do the game mechs play in, making it visual novel-esque. Try to balance, make it relevant but simulating real life with terrible decisions. 

Using Miami Nights 2: Make friends, flirt or enemies: Chat, Share (give gifts, going on dates and getting phone no.), Offend, Flirt.

